JUDY WOODRUFF: A new exhibit,
Sunrise, Sunset, by Swiss artist
Nicolas Party, recently opened
at the Hirshhorn Museum
in Washington, D.C.
Party, known for his large works
of public art, painted directly
on 400 feet of the museum's
circular walls.
We tracked his progress
over two weeks.
Party told the "NewsHour" he
was inspired by the notion
that, no matter what happens,
the sun will rise
in the morning.
NICOLAS PARTY, Artist: I was
aware of the circle shape of the
building, and that influenced
my decision.
So I decided to do a show about
sunsets and sunrises, which is
this kind of end and beginning
that happens every day, but
also implied this idea of this
very, very long timeline that
just shows the rotation of
every element in the universe.
And let's give a perspective
of maybe, like, seeing history
and things in a much bigger
way, and maybe not being
always focused on the daily.
The circle aspect really
defines the project.
And then, after, I'm trying
to kind of build up a
rhythm into this space.
Every wall is a different
color, but also every shape of
the paintings that I'm doing
on the wall also has a different
format to give like a rhythm
and an energy to the wall.
I like to improvise.
So there's an element of freedom
when I work on the walls.
So I use the wall almost
as a piece of paper.
Sometimes, of course, I have
sketches, but, yes, I work
very organically, so there's an
element of surprise.
It's really exciting.
I mean, yes, it's really
exciting to have all this space.
In a matter of seven
days, I will do like
30 different paintings.
A lot of art that I love, they
feel really alive and energetic.
And so you need to be in that
stage when you're doing them.
A lot of landscape painting.
I have been obviously
painting sunsets and sunrises.
It's the only moment
during the day that you
can really see, visually,
how the entire universe
functions.
You can really see the rotation
of Earth at that moment.
Right now, we can't see it.
But during those 30 minutes
of a sunset or a sunrise, you
can actually feel it, and you
can see it very clearly.
And all those kind of different
reasons that the color change
the sky, that's the physical
reaction of the light
going through different
kind of angles and stuff.
And I thought
that's fascinating.
Obviously, the daily life
and our little preoccupations
that are very important,
but so it's interesting
to put them in perspective
with this big thing.
There's very different stages
when I do those murals.
There's like the beginning
that is very slow and
allow myself a lot of time.
Then there's a moment when it's
-- everything is beginning to
build up, and I realize, oh,
I made mistakes in the
placements or the size,
colors or whatever.
It's getting very stressful.
And so then there's a
moment it's very difficult,
usually, because it's
not going how I want
to go.
Also, just like coming to
a space, doing something
and this thing will
disappear or more or less
being covered up, so it will
still be here, but it will be
covered by a layer of paint.
It's like ruins
that are underneath.
Like the cave painting, you
don't see, but I'm sure there's
a lot of them that we don't
see or we don't know about,
but still they exist.
There's very different steps
between the moment you start, to
run to the moment it's extremely
difficult, to the end, when
you feel totally fine just
running through the line.
And it's all those moments
that are very exciting,
yes, to look forward to do.
You don't need to
change the world.
You can just change your
few meters around you.
And so I did change the circle.
That's what I did.